with seo you would think that it's too
hard to outrank a big company because
they have a high domain authority
thousands if not millions of backlinks
and they have a big marketing team with
a huge ad budget so it's impossible to
outrank them right wrong actually it's
very doable what most people don't tell
you is big companies move really really
really slowly for example i don't have
enough fingers on my hand
to count how many companies we work with
that all the content has to get approved
by legal before it goes live just think
about that you write a piece of content
optimize it for users and marketing but
before you publish it you have to send
it to legal and in many cases legal
tears it apart modifies it so much you
can't use it so then what do you have to
do you have to fix it all up again
use their comments adjust and then send
it back to them for approval and if
you're lucky enough they'll have no
changes and then you can get it up on
their site
do you see why you can beat these big
companies
they don't just move slow on content or
even marketing it's most parts of their
business now this doesn't mean that you
should take them for granted instead you
should pay attention to the changes they
are making because they typically
prioritize them based on what's going to
help them the most which can give you
ideas on what you should test next or
implement next beyond just seo but
speaking of seo how do you beat these
big companies well there's a simple
playbook that i like to run that i found
that it works just in most cases
step one
build links through animated graphics
i've talked about this in the past but
infographics are one of the best and
easiest ways to build links tools like
infogram can help you build them quickly
with one of my first company's
kissmetrics we got over to 1 million
visits a month and we mainly did it
through link building specifically
through infographics
but
if you want your infographics to really
do well add in some animation here's an
example of one that breaks on how
engines work
step two
write content and keep it updated
monthly see big companies write content
but not as often as you would think and
once they write the content they don't
update it often but do you know what
google loves
fresh content hence wikipedia dominates
rankings and is one of the 10 most
popular websites in the world according
to similar web and they get a ton of
their traffic from google
with your content try to update your
main pages at least once a month and
when i say update i don't mean just
deleting a sentence or adding one or
updating an image i mean updating it to
be more valuable than the competition
your competition is continually updating
their content make yours better than
theirs and keep it better than theirs so
continually keep track of the main
keywords that you want to go after each
month with these pages search them on
google look at your competition see what
they're always doing at least the ones
in the top 10 and make sure your content
is always better than theirs step 3 add
tools to your website you know i have
the uber says tool but did you know that
it has over 24 000 unique backlinks
that's a lot of links and you don't have
to build a crazy tool to get links my a
b testing calculator tool is dead simple
yet it has 687 unique links it's not bad
and if you don't want to build a tool
just go use sites like codecanyon where
you can find tools white label them and
pop them on your website step four use
schema markup
one way to beat these big companies is
to optimize for click throughs see it's
hard to beat them at the linking but did
you know that google looks at
click-through rates a great example of
this is if a thousand people search for
the term dog food and everyone naturally
clicks on the second listing instead of
the first listing
what do you think that tells google it
tells them that people prefer the second
listing it doesn't matter if the first
one is better seo or more links google
will eventually take that second spot
and move up to number two because that's
what people prefer
in other words if you can get more
people to click on your listings over
the competition even if you rank
underneath them
you can do well and schema markup can
help with this a great example for this
is just do a search on google for a
restaurant it typically has a star
rating that's example of schema markup
step five optimize your title tags for
click-throughs this is kind of like step
four but it's a little bit different
than using schema markup
we already talked about click-throughs
right the more clicks you get the higher
you can rank so i want to break down 10
ways
you can optimize your titles and meta
text to increase your click-through rate
one titles with questions have a 14.1
percent higher click-through rate two
you can get roughly 8.6 higher
click-throughs from a title with 15 to
40 characters instead of something
that's longer or shorter so make sure
your titles aren't too long or too short
three
you can get up to 45 increasing
click-throughs when the exact query
someone is searching for is in your url
example of this is if you search for a
term digital marketing i want to make my
url neilpatel.com digital dash marketing
four powers can increase your
click-throughs by roughly 13.9 percent a
great example of a power word is
effortless such as seven effortless ways
to boost your rankings
five get roughly a seven point three
percent higher click-through rate for
titles that contain emotions versus ones
that don't have any emotion
six
and you can get roughly a 5.8 higher
click-through rate if you haven't met a
description so make sure you add one to
each of your pages and don't rely on
google
seven titles with years generate roughly
4.9 percent more clicks such as the
beginner's guide to seo 2025 edition now
of course you want to use the year
you're in you don't want to use 2025 but
you get the point
eight evoking curiosity can increase
clicks by 5.9
example of this the seven benefits of
green tea number six will shock you wait
number six will shock you what's number
six that's example of evoking curiosity
nine titles that resemble education
roughly have 10.4 percent more clicks
and 10
you're more likely to be successful if
you looked at paid ads because they're
also scored on click so look at all the
paid ads in google for the terms you
want to rank for and that will give you
ideas on what to use in your title tags
and meta description
now the next step
build a brand through social and pr
what a lot of startups can do
that large companies can't is use social
media and pr just look at how much
content i push out so create content
regularly and push it out daily and with
pr you can do performance based pr where
you only pay if you get results a lot of
companies like prserv offer that the
more people that see your brand the more
people that'll search for it on google
and the more likely that you'll rank
higher on google because that sends
signals to google that you have a strong
brand
now i know what i covered is a lot so if
you need help implementing any of this
check out my ad agency np digital where
we help companies do all this plus more
if you have any questions leave a
comment below and if you enjoyed the
video like it share it tell the people
about it subscribe to the channel thank
you very much